Let's test this page
for keyboard accessibility.
The first thing I'm going to do when
the page loads is hit the tab key
and I can use tab to move forward
in the interface.
And I can use Shift tab to move
backwards in the interface.
As I tab around this main navigation,
you may notice that there's a highly
visible visual indication
of key board focus.
It's pretty clear where I'm at that's what
we want to see on all controls needs to be
pretty obvious where I'm
at in this interface at all times.
One of the first things that we sent
focus to here was called a skip link.
We want to see those too.
When interfaces have large chunks
of content that should be
skipped over by keyboard users.
In this case, I could activate the skip
to sitemap link and jump all the way down
to the bottom of the page and navigate
the content in the footer without having
to tab through all
of the content in the page.
That's very helpful.
And as I tab around,
I'm able to move through the experience
because my keyboard focus is not trapped.
That's important too.
We never want to be trapped in one
spot as we tab around the interface.
We also, while we're doing keyboard
testing, want to identify all
functionality that is present for mouse
users or users of other pointing devices
that those are there
for keyboard users too.
So let's take a look at the
Click Here button in the Hero.
If I click that,
the page scrolls down to this form
down at the bottom of the page.
So I would imagine if I tab to it
and then hit Enter,
that functionality would be present.
So let's try that.
I'm going to tab through the navigation
and we would imagine that the next thing
that I would tab to is the next focusable
element, the Click Here button.
And as I tab there, I actually skip
all the way down to the footer.
Something's going on here.
Why isn't this link keyboard accessible?
So at this point,
I would dive into the code and figure
out why this isn't keyboard accessible.
Another important consideration while
doing keyboard testing is when we send
keyboard focus to a focusable element
that it just doesn't automatically reload
the page or submit a web
form without warning users.
Odds are that when an experience is
keyboard accessible, it's on the right
track to be screen reader accessible too.
So let's make sure that all mouse
functionality is present
for those keyboard users.
Ensure that there's a highly visible
visual indication in keyboard focus
that there are no keyboard traps
and that that focus order is logical.
We want to also make sure that when users
send focus to elements that it doesn't all
of a sudden change context for those users
and then let's look out
for those skip links too.